README.md, before:

<h1>42_school_CPP</h1>

<p>CPP piscine from 42 school</p>

<h2>CPP00</h2> 
### Namespaces, classes, member functions, stdio streams, initialization lists, static, const, and some other stuff

<h2>Namespace</h2>

<p>Used to prevent name collisions when using multiple libraries, a namespace is a declarative preﬁx for functions,
classes, types, etc.</p>
<p>A C++ namespace is a collection of C++ entities (functions, classes, variables), whose names are preﬁxed by the
name of the namespace. When writing code within a namespace, named entities belonging to that namespace
need not be preﬁxed with the namespace name, but entities outside of it must use the fully qualiﬁed name. The
fully qualiﬁed name has the format <namespace>::<entity>.</p>
<p>Namespaces are useful for grouping related deﬁnitions together.</p>

<h2>Class</h2>

<p>Classes are an expanded concept of data structures: like data structures, they can contain:</p>
<ul>
<li>data members (attributes)</li>
<li>functions as members (methods)</li>
</ul>
<p>An object is an instantiation of a class. In terms of variables, a class would be the type, and an object would be the variable.</p>
<p>Classes are defined using either keyword class or keyword struct, with the following syntax:</p>
<code>
<pre>
class "name" {
	access_specifier_1:
		member1;
	access_specifier_2:
		member2;
};
</pre>
</code>

<h4>access_specifiers</h4>
<ul>
<li><b>private:</b> members of a class are accessible only from within other members of the same class (or from their "friends").</li>
<li><b>protected:</b> members are accessible from other members of the same class (or from their "friends"), but also from members of their derived classes.</li>
<li><b>public:</b> members are accessible from anywhere where the object is visible.</li>
</ul>

<h4>scope operator '::'</h4>

<p>It is used to define a member of a class outside the class itself.</p>
<code>
<pre>
class Rectangle {
	private:
		int width, height;
	public:
		void set_values (int,int);
		int area() {return width*height;}
};

void Rectangle::set_values (int x, int y) {
	width = x;
	height = y;
}
</pre>
</code>
<p>In the example above the method set_values was prototyped inside the class but its definition is outside, the operator of scope ( : : ) is used to specify that the function being defined is a member of the class Rectangle and not a regular non-member function.</p>

<h3>Keyword This</h3>

<p>Within a member function of a class, the keyword this is a pointer to the instance of the class on which the
function was called.</p>
<p>This cannot be used in a static member function.</p>
<p>link</p>
<ul>
<li>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_hPJ_EhceI</li>
</ul>

<h3>Constructors</h3>

<p>It's aspecial function which is automatically called whenever a new object of this class is created.</p> 
<p>The constructor initialize the member variables or allocate storage to avoid an undetermined result in case of a variable had never been assigned a value.</p>
<p>Constructors cannot be called explicitly as if they were regular member functions. They are only executed once, when a new object of that class is created.</p>
<p>Notice how neither the constructor prototype declaration (within the class) nor the latter constructor definition, have return values; not even void: Constructors never return values, they simply initialize the object.</p>

<h4>Overloading constructors</h4>
<p>Like any other function, a constructor can also be overloaded with different versions taking different parameters: with a different number of parameters and/or parameters of different types. The compiler will automatically call the one whose parameters match the arguments.</p>

<h4>Default Constructor</h4>

<p>The default constructor is the constructor that takes no parameters, and it is special because it is called when an object is declared but is not initialized with any arguments.</p>

<b>Initialization</b>

<p>Note how rectb is not even constructed with an empty set of parentheses - in fact, empty parentheses cannot be used to call the default constructor.</p>
<code>
<pre>
Rectangle rectb;   // ok, default constructor called
Rectangle rectc(); // oops, default constructor NOT called 
</pre>
</code>
<p>This is because the empty set of parentheses would make of rectc a function declaration instead of an object declaration: It would be a function that takes no arguments and returns a value of type Rectangle.</p>

<h4>Uniform Initialization</h4>
<ul>
<li>Functional form:  <p>Class();</p> </li>
<li>Variable initialization syntax:
<p>"class name" "objectname" = initialization_value;</p></li>
<li> Uniform initialization:
<p>essentially the same as the functional form, but using braces ({}): class_name object_name { value, value, value, ... }</p></li>
</ul>

#### EX00

#### EX01

![conversion hierarchy](./CPP00_ex01_UML.png)
<p>UML diagram</p>

#### EX02


## CPP01 
### Memory Allocation, pointers to members, references, switch statement

#### EX00 
#### EX01
#### EX02
#### EX03 - Inicialization List
links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1nfuYMXjZsA

#### EX04
#### EX05
#### EX06 - Switch Case
links:
    
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YpvVnZNMk_g


## CPP02
### Ad-hoc Polimorphism, operator overloading and Ortodox Canonical class

#### EX00
#### Float Point Numbers, Const, Static.
links: 

    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXF-wcoeT0o

Computerphile:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZRI1IfStY0
    
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4ekifyijIg

Const in C++

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fJBrditnJU

Static

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3FVU-iwNuA

Static in class

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-BFlMrBtqQ
	
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ldv5i14UhTA

Copy Constructor; Copy Assignment (Deep and Shallow copy)

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EBgBM7rPDic

Overloading operator << >>

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2972LRdyquk&t=355s

#### EX01

#### EX02

#### EX03 BSP Binary Space Partioning

Links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYAgJN3x4GA

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntjM9YZP0qk

## CPP03
### Inheritanc

#### EX00

#### EX01

links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X8nYM8wdNRE

Function Overiding

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zd_4xa071nc

#### EX02

#### EX03 Vitual fuctions, Vtable, Multiple inheritance

links:

Virtual Functions

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIV2KchSyGQ


Vtable

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS7kPtVB1vI


Multiple Inheritance

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVREEoovDd4

### CPP04

#### EX00

#### EX01 Deep ans Shallow copy
links:

Deep and Shallow copy

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvR1Pgzzr38&t=875s

Virtual Functions

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIV2KchSyGQ


Vtable

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS7kPtVB1vI


#### EX02 Viltual Function, Pure Virtual Function, Abstract Class

Abstract class - It is a class that has at least one pure virtual function.

links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T8f4ajtFU9g

#### EX03

### CPP05 Exceptions( try and catch)

#### EX00

Try and Catch

	links:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjEhqgmEiWY

#### EX01

#### EX02

#### EX03

### CPP06 - Type Conversions

#### 

#### EX00 Conversion of Scalar Types

![conversion hierarchy](./conversion_hierarchy.png)
<p>conversion hierarchy</p>

#### EX01

#### EX02 Dynamic Casting

	Used only for polymorfic classes.

Cherno - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiHfz6pTolQ

### CPP07 - Template

<p>There are two places where we can apply templates:</p>
<ul>
<li>function templates </li>
<li>class templates</li>
</ul>
<p>Templates are the way to write generic programs</p>
<p>The main point is we pass data type as parameter to function or class.</p>



Templates will be evaluated at compile time. It is just created when is called in the code. It will be created with the type that was called.

Cherno - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-hZkUa9mIs

Function as parameter of another function - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67vTjgbT56Q

<h4>CPP08</h4>
<h5>std::stack</h5>
<p> It is a container adapter. It's not a container, it's adapting a existing container and mapping the functions.</p>
<p>By default internaly uses the std::deque STL container.</p>
<p>It's a LIFO(last-in, first-out) data structure</p>
<p><link rel="cplusplus reference" href="https://cplusplus.com/reference/stack/stack/"></p>

Commit message:

CPP04 ex00 make sound function was not virtual

README.md, after:

<h1>42_school_CPP</h1>

<p>CPP piscine from 42 school</p>

<h2>CPP00</h2> 
### Namespaces, classes, member functions, stdio streams, initialization lists, static, const, and some other stuff

<h2>Namespace</h2>

<p>Used to prevent name collisions when using multiple libraries, a namespace is a declarative preﬁx for functions,
classes, types, etc.</p>
<p>A C++ namespace is a collection of C++ entities (functions, classes, variables), whose names are preﬁxed by the
name of the namespace. When writing code within a namespace, named entities belonging to that namespace
need not be preﬁxed with the namespace name, but entities outside of it must use the fully qualiﬁed name. The
fully qualiﬁed name has the format <namespace>::<entity>.</p>
<p>Namespaces are useful for grouping related deﬁnitions together.</p>

<h2>Class</h2>

<p>Classes are an expanded concept of data structures: like data structures, they can contain:</p>
<ul>
<li>data members (attributes)</li>
<li>functions as members (methods)</li>
</ul>
<p>An object is an instantiation of a class. In terms of variables, a class would be the type, and an object would be the variable.</p>
<p>Classes are defined using either keyword class or keyword struct, with the following syntax:</p>
<code>
<pre>
class "name" {
	access_specifier_1:
		member1;
	access_specifier_2:
		member2;
};
</pre>
</code>

<h4>access_specifiers</h4>
<ul>
<li><b>private:</b> members of a class are accessible only from within other members of the same class (or from their "friends").</li>
<li><b>protected:</b> members are accessible from other members of the same class (or from their "friends"), but also from members of their derived classes.</li>
<li><b>public:</b> members are accessible from anywhere where the object is visible.</li>
</ul>

<h4>scope operator '::'</h4>

<p>It is used to define a member of a class outside the class itself.</p>
<code>
<pre>
class Rectangle {
	private:
		int width, height;
	public:
		void set_values (int,int);
		int area() {return width*height;}
};

void Rectangle::set_values (int x, int y) {
	width = x;
	height = y;
}
</pre>
</code>
<p>In the example above the method set_values was prototyped inside the class but its definition is outside, the operator of scope ( : : ) is used to specify that the function being defined is a member of the class Rectangle and not a regular non-member function.</p>

<h3>Keyword This</h3>

<p>Within a member function of a class, the keyword this is a pointer to the instance of the class on which the
function was called.</p>
<p>This cannot be used in a static member function.</p>
<p>link</p>
<ul>
<li>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_hPJ_EhceI</li>
</ul>

<h3>Constructors</h3>

<p>It's aspecial function which is automatically called whenever a new object of this class is created.</p> 
<p>The constructor initialize the member variables or allocate storage to avoid an undetermined result in case of a variable had never been assigned a value.</p>
<p>Constructors cannot be called explicitly as if they were regular member functions. They are only executed once, when a new object of that class is created.</p>
<p>Notice how neither the constructor prototype declaration (within the class) nor the latter constructor definition, have return values; not even void: Constructors never return values, they simply initialize the object.</p>

<h4>Overloading constructors</h4>
<p>Like any other function, a constructor can also be overloaded with different versions taking different parameters: with a different number of parameters and/or parameters of different types. The compiler will automatically call the one whose parameters match the arguments.</p>

<h4>Default Constructor</h4>

<p>The default constructor is the constructor that takes no parameters, and it is special because it is called when an object is declared but is not initialized with any arguments.</p>

<b>Initialization</b>

<p>Note how rectb is not even constructed with an empty set of parentheses - in fact, empty parentheses cannot be used to call the default constructor.</p>
<code>
<pre>
Rectangle rectb;   // ok, default constructor called
Rectangle rectc(); // oops, default constructor NOT called 
</pre>
</code>
<p>This is because the empty set of parentheses would make of rectc a function declaration instead of an object declaration: It would be a function that takes no arguments and returns a value of type Rectangle.</p>

<h4>Uniform Initialization</h4>
<ul>
<li>Functional form:  <p>Class();</p> </li>
<li>Variable initialization syntax:
<p>"class name" "objectname" = initialization_value;</p></li>
<li> Uniform initialization:
<p>essentially the same as the functional form, but using braces ({}): class_name object_name { value, value, value, ... }</p></li>
</ul>

#### EX00

#### EX01

![conversion hierarchy](./CPP00_ex01_UML.png)
<p>UML diagram</p>

#### EX02


## CPP01 
### Memory Allocation, pointers to members, references, switch statement

#### EX00 
#### EX01
#### EX02
#### EX03 - Inicialization List
links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1nfuYMXjZsA

#### EX04
#### EX05
#### EX06 - Switch Case
links:
    
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YpvVnZNMk_g


## CPP02
### Ad-hoc Polimorphism, operator overloading and Ortodox Canonical class

#### EX00
#### Float Point Numbers, Const, Static.
links: 

    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXF-wcoeT0o

Computerphile:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZRI1IfStY0
    
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4ekifyijIg

Const in C++

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fJBrditnJU

Static

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3FVU-iwNuA

Static in class

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-BFlMrBtqQ
	
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ldv5i14UhTA

Copy Constructor; Copy Assignment (Deep and Shallow copy)

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EBgBM7rPDic

Overloading operator << >>

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2972LRdyquk&t=355s

#### EX01

#### EX02

#### EX03 BSP Binary Space Partioning

Links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYAgJN3x4GA

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntjM9YZP0qk

## CPP03
### Inheritanc

#### EX00

#### EX01

links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X8nYM8wdNRE

Function Overiding

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zd_4xa071nc

#### EX02

#### EX03 Vitual fuctions, Vtable, Multiple inheritance


### Vtable vs Pointers

#### Runtime polimorphism
<p>Virtual functions are called depending on the object type instead of the 
pointer or reference type.</p>

links:

Virtual Functions

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIV2KchSyGQ


Vtable

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS7kPtVB1vI


Multiple Inheritance

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVREEoovDd4

### CPP04

#### EX00

#### EX01 Deep ans Shallow copy
links:

Deep and Shallow copy

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvR1Pgzzr38&t=875s

Virtual Functions

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIV2KchSyGQ


Vtable

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS7kPtVB1vI


#### EX02 Viltual Function, Pure Virtual Function, Abstract Class

Abstract class - It is a class that has at least one pure virtual function.

links:

	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T8f4ajtFU9g

#### EX03

### CPP05 Exceptions( try and catch)

#### EX00

Try and Catch

	links:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjEhqgmEiWY

#### EX01

#### EX02

#### EX03

### CPP06 - Type Conversions

#### 

#### EX00 Conversion of Scalar Types

![conversion hierarchy](./conversion_hierarchy.png)
<p>conversion hierarchy</p>

#### EX01

#### EX02 Dynamic Casting

	Used only for polymorfic classes.

Cherno - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiHfz6pTolQ

### CPP07 - Template

<p>There are two places where we can apply templates:</p>
<ul>
<li>function templates </li>
<li>class templates</li>
</ul>
<p>Templates are the way to write generic programs</p>
<p>The main point is we pass data type as parameter to function or class.</p>



Templates will be evaluated at compile time. It is just created when is called in the code. It will be created with the type that was called.

Cherno - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-hZkUa9mIs

Function as parameter of another function - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67vTjgbT56Q

<h4>CPP08</h4>
<h5>std::stack</h5>
<p> It is a container adapter. It's not a container, it's adapting a existing container and mapping the functions.</p>
<p>By default internaly uses the std::deque STL container.</p>
<p>It's a LIFO(last-in, first-out) data structure</p>
<p><link rel="cplusplus reference" href="https://cplusplus.com/reference/stack/stack/"></p>
